Documentation (#9)
aerogear/native-android-example: README.md

# Sample Android Native Application

## Introduction

> This is a sample Android Java application showing use of DataSync, [Keycloak](https://www.keycloak.org/about.html) and Unified Push using native upstream SDK's.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is a sample Android Java application showing use of [Voyager DataSync](https://github.com/aerogear/voyager-server), [Keycloak](https://www.keycloak.org/about.html) and Unified Push using native upstream SDKs.
```

Application is sending requests to [Ionic showcase server]([https://github.com/aerogear/ionic-showcase/tree/master/server](https://github.com/aerogear/ionic-showcase/tree/master/server)) which is a GraphQL server. For DataSync, application uses Apollo Client to query, mutate and subscribe. [AppAuth](https://github.com/openid/AppAuth-Android) to connect

>  with Keycloak and Aerogear SDK for Unified Push support.

Reviewer: I think using a bullet list here to list each of the service and upstream SDK used will be better as it will make it easier to read.

Author: good idea, thank Wei

## Implementation
### 1. DataSync
#### Generating queries, mutations and subscriptions
  To generate queries, mutations and subscriptions of running GraphQL server [Apollo Codegen]([https://github.com/apollographql/apollo-tooling](https://github.com/apollographql/apollo-tooling)) was used.

> #### Creating client

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Creating an Apollo client
```

 - First, we need to build OkHttpClient to handle network requests
  ```java
OkHttpClient okHttpClient = new OkHttpClient
        .Builder()
        .addInterceptor(chain -> {
            Request original = chain.request();
  Request.Builder builder = original.newBuilder().method(original.method(), original.body());

>   builder.header("Authorization", authHeader);

Reviewer: Probably have some sudo code to explain where the `authHeader` coming from.

 ```java
 ApolloSqlHelper apolloSqlHelper = new ApolloSqlHelper(context, DB_CACHE_NAME);

NormalizedCacheFactory<LruNormalizedCache> cacheFactory = new LruNormalizedCacheFactory(EvictionPolicy.NO_EVICTION)
        .chain(new SqlNormalizedCacheFactory(apolloSqlHelper));
 ```
 - Passing in connection params for subscriptions to work if server is behind authentication mechanism
 ```java
 Map<String, Object> connectionParams = new HashMap<>();
connectionParams.put("Authorization", authHeader);
```
- And build our Apollo Client
```java
return ApolloClient.builder()
        .enableAutoPersistedQueries(true)
        .serverUrl(serverUrl)
        .normalizedCache(cacheFactory, resolver)
        .subscriptionConnectionParams(connectionParams)
        .subscriptionTransportFactory(new WebSocketSubscriptionTransport.Factory(serverUrl, okHttpClient))
        .okHttpClient(okHttpClient)
        .build();
```
#### Using queries, mutation and subscriptions
Once client is build we can use it to run queries, mutations and subscriptions. On application start, a query, mutation or subscription is build
#### Query
```java
MyGeneratedQuery nameOfMyQuery = MyGeneratedQuery
        .builder()

>         .build();

Reviewer: where is this coming from? Is it part of the app, or just an example for this doc?

Author: this is just an example for the doc. Every builder whether it is query mutation or subscription looks the same so I thought it would make sense to make it a little bit more generic.

Author: I had changed it to match app code. Very good point, I don;t think it actually makes any sense to have one of 3 code snippets trying to be generic while others are just matching the code itself.

    mAuthState.update(tokenResponse, authException);

  startActivity(new Intent(this, MainActivity.class));
}
```
## Unifiedpush implementation

#### Dependencies Required
Add the following to your `build.gradle` file:

```java
apply plugin: 'com.google.gms.google-services'
```

```java
implementation 'org.jboss.aerogear:aerogear-android-push:5.1.0'
```

### 1. External Setup
For setting up push notifications a [Firebase](https://firebase.google.com/) account is required. The following information below is required and can be found the firebase project settings.

- The `google-services.json` file.
- Sender ID 
- Server Key

Create application within the [Aerogear Unifiefpush Server](https://github.com/aerogear/aerogear-unifiedpush-server) . For creating the application `Sender Id` and `Server Key` are required, both values can be obtained from Firebase.

Once the application variant has been set, add to the `push-config.json` file.

- Server URL
- Variant ID
- Variant Secret
- Sender ID (`Sender Id` obtained from Firebase)

### 2. Project Setup
 Edit the `AndroidManifest.xml` to allow permissions for the push notifications.

```xml

>     <uses-permission android:name="android.permission.GET_ACCOUNTS" />

Reviewer: this doesn't look like the right permission to ask for push notification?

Reviewer 2: We have looked into, this was a requirement for the older version of android. 

We will remove.

# Sample Android Native Application

## Introduction

This is a sample Android Java application showing use of DataSync, [Keycloak](https://www.keycloak.org/about.html) and Unified Push using native upstream SDK's. Application is sending requests to [Ionic showcase server](https://github.com/aerogear/ionic-showcase/tree/master/server) which is a GraphQL server. 

- For DataSync, application uses Apollo Client to query, mutate and subscribe. 
- For authorization we are using [AppAuth](https://github.com/openid/AppAuth-Android) to connect
 with Keycloak. 
- For Unifiedpush support we are using Aerogear SDK.

## Implementation
### 1. DataSync
#### Generating queries, mutations and subscriptions
  To generate queries, mutations and subscriptions of running GraphQL server [Apollo Codegen](https://github.com/apollographql/apollo-tooling) was used.

> 

Reviewer: For people that haven't used Graphql before, it might be good to have some links here for them to read and understand how graphql works and the basic concepts.

  ```
- `.responseFetcher` in our example has either `NETWORK_ONLY` or `CACHE_ONLY` policy. Depending on device being online or offline. If `online` all data used in query is coming from the server, if `offline` all data is coming from normalized cache.
#### Mutation
 ```java
 client.mutate(deleteTask)
        .refetchQueries(tasksQuery)
        .enqueue(new ApolloCall.Callback<DeleteTaskMutation.Data>() {
```
- We want to use `refetchQueries(myGetQuery)` in mutations just to refetch our get query so cache gets updated.

#### Subscriptions
   ```java
   client.subscribe(deleteTaskSubscription)
        .execute(new ApolloSubscriptionCall.Callback<DeleteTaskSubscription.Data>() {
  ```
- Currently the only way to refresh cache after receiving subscription response is to use `subscribeToMore`, however, this is not available in java.
  After request has been sent we either receive `onResponse`, if request was successful, or `onFailure` if request has failed.

 ```java
  @Override
public void onResponse(@NotNull Response<AllTasksQuery.Data> response) {
    ON RESPONSE LOGIC
}
 @Override
public void onFailure(@NotNull ApolloException e) {
    ON FAILURE LOGIC
}

> ```

Reviewer: is there an Apollo android docs that we can link here so that if people wants to know more they will be able to find out themselves.

```java
mAuthService = new AuthorizationService(this);
final AuthorizationServiceConfiguration.RetrieveConfigurationCallback retrieveCallback =
        (authorizationServiceConfiguration, e) -> {
            if (e != null) {
                System.out.println("Failed to retrieve configuration for " + mobileService.getKIssuer());
  } else {
                makeAuthRequest(authorizationServiceConfiguration);
  }
        };

String discoveryEndpoint = mobileService.getKIssuer() + ".well-known/openid-configuration";
AuthorizationServiceConfiguration.fetchFromUrl(Uri.parse(discoveryEndpoint), retrieveCallback);
```
- Once we have received configuration from Keycloak we can build Authorization Request

```java
String k_REDIRECT_URI = "com.m.androidnativeapp:/oauth2redirect";

AuthorizationRequest.Builder authorizationRequest = new AuthorizationRequest.Builder(
        serviceConfiguration,
  mobileService.getKClientId(),
  ResponseTypeValues.CODE,
  Uri.parse(k_REDIRECT_URI));

AuthorizationRequest authRequest = authorizationRequest.build();

Intent authIntent = mAuthService.getAuthorizationRequestIntent(authRequest);
startActivityForResult(authIntent, RC_AUTH);
```

> - It is important to note that we need to provide valid `redirect_URI` and `clientId`, in our sample app we are using `mobile-services.json` file that has been generated in [MDC](https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_mobile_developer_services/1/pdf/getting_started/Red_Hat_Mobile_Developer_Services-1-Getting_Started-en-US.pdf). Once authorization request has been send app is redirected to Keycloak log in screen.

Reviewer: let's not link to mdc anymore.

> - It is important to note that we need to provide valid `redirect_URI` and `clientId`, in our sample app we are using `mobile-services.json` file that has been generated in [MDC](https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_mobile_developer_services/1/pdf/getting_started/Red_Hat_Mobile_Developer_Services-1-Getting_Started-en-US.pdf). Once authorization request has been send app is redirected to Keycloak log in screen.

Reviewer: Also I think AppAuth has some docs explaining how to set `redirect_uri`. Probably should link it here.

    mAuthService.performTokenRequest(
            request,
  (tokenResponse, ex) -> {
                receivedTokenResponse(tokenResponse, ex);
  mAuthStateManager.updateAfterTokenResponse(tokenResponse, ex);
  });
}
```
- Once we get a response we can view our token details

```java
private void receivedTokenResponse(
        @Nullable TokenResponse tokenResponse,
  @Nullable AuthorizationException authException) {
    mAuthState.update(tokenResponse, authException);

  System.out.println("Token expires in : " + mAuthState.getAccessTokenExpirationTime());

  startActivity(new Intent(this, MainActivity.class));
}
```
### 3. Unifiedpush implementation
#### External Setup
For setting up push notifications a [firebase](https://firebase.google.com/) account is required. The following information below is required and can be found the firebase project settings.

- The `google-services.json` file.
- Sender ID 
- Server Key

With in the [Aerogear Unifiefpush Server](https://github.com/aerogear/aerogear-unifiedpush-server) create you application. For creating the application you will need the following information.

- Sender ID - This is gotten from firebase

> - Server Key - this is gotten from firebase

Reviewer: I believe there are some docs to explain all the external set up required to use UPS. It's probably best to just link to the existing docs instead.

        PushRegistrar pushRegistrar = application.getPushRegistrar();
        pushRegistrar.register(getApplicationContext(), new Callback<Void>() {
            
            @Override
            public void onSuccess(Void data) {
                Log.d(TAG, "Registration Succeeded");
            }

            @Override
            public void onFailure(Exception e) {
                Log.e(TAG, e.getMessage(), e);
                Toast.makeText(getApplicationContext(),
                        "Ops, something is wrong :(", Toast.LENGTH_LONG).show();
            }
        });
    }
    
    public void toastStartUpPushNotification(){
        if (getIntent() != null) {
            Bundle bundle = getIntent().getExtras();
            if (bundle != null && bundle.getString(UnifiedPushMessage.ALERT_KEY) != null) {
                Toast.makeText(getApplicationContext(),
                        bundle.getString(UnifiedPushMessage.ALERT_KEY), Toast.LENGTH_LONG).show();
            }

        }
    }

}
```
More information can be found at [docs.aerogear.org](https://docs.aerogear.org/aerogear/latest/push-notifications.html).

> ### 4. Mobile-services parser

Reviewer: It's very likely that we may get rid of this in the future. So I suggest that we don't reduce the content in this section here. Most of the things can be code comments (which can be used to generate javadoc), and will be removed when the code is removed.

The Mobile services parser is a helper class to parse the `mobile-services.json` file. 
This file contains the connection details for the services used within the application.

> `IMobileService` has method stubs for configuration getters required to configure the `Apollo-Client`, `App-Auth` and `Unified push`. 

Reviewer: It's better to move it inside the class itself as comments.

These methods are:

- `String getGraphqlServer()` = Return the URL for a GraphQL server.
- `String getKIssuer()` = Returns the Issuer URL for AppAuth.
- `String getKClientId()` = Returns the client Id for AppAuth 
- `String getPushUrl()` = Returns the URL for the unified push server.
- `String getPushVariantId()` = Returns the Variant ID for the unified push server.

> - `String getPushVariantSecret()` = Returns the Variant Secret for the unified push server.

Reviewer: I don't really think we need to list the methods here. Again have them as code comments should be enough.

> #### mobile-services.json

Reviewer: I think we should remove this section. It's very likely that we will get rid of this in the future.

Author: @wei-lee would you leave the mobile-services.json parser ( part 4 ) of the docs or will I remove it as well?

When the `mobile-service.json` file is parsed, configuration build is converted to a java `Keycloak.class` object.

```json
    {
      "config": {
        "auth-server-url": "https://sso.example.com/auth",
        "confidential-port": 0,
        "public-client": true,
        "realm": "example-app-realm",
        "resource": "example-app-client",
        "ssl-required": "external"
      },
      "name": "keycloak",
      "type": "keycloak",
      "url": "https://sso.example.com/auth"
    }
```
##### Push

The Push example configuration is not used in our example, but the following would be its format.

```json
    {
      "config": {
        "android": {
          "variantID": "variantID (e.g. 1234456-234320)",
          "variantSecret": "variantSecret (e.g. 1234456-234320)"
        }
      },
      "name": "push",
      "type": "push",
      "url": "https://push.example.com"
    }
```
The only information that is missing is `sender Id`, which can be found in application settings on firebase, or in the `google-services.json` file, which is required in this example application.

> #### MobileService.class

Reviewer: we can keep this section and reduce the content a bit perhaps. Just need to explain how to get configurations.

  OPTIONALLY UPDATE AUTH STATE MANAGER

  exchangeAuthorizationCode(resp);

  } else {
        System.out.println("Error, wrong response code");
  }
}
```
- With the response back we can trigger `exchangeAuthorizationCode` and perform token request
```java
private void exchangeAuthorizationCode(AuthorizationResponse authorizationResponse) {
    performTokenRequest(authorizationResponse.createTokenExchangeRequest());
}
private void performTokenRequest(TokenRequest request) {
    mAuthService.performTokenRequest(
            request,
  (tokenResponse, ex) -> {
                receivedTokenResponse(tokenResponse, ex);
  mAuthStateManager.updateAfterTokenResponse(tokenResponse, ex);
  });
}
```
- Once we get a response we can view our token details
```java
private void receivedTokenResponse(
        @Nullable TokenResponse tokenResponse,
  @Nullable AuthorizationException authException) {
    mAuthState.update(tokenResponse, authException);

  System.out.println("Token expires in : " + mAuthState.getAccessTokenExpirationTime());

  startActivity(new Intent(this, MainActivity.class));
}
```
### 3. Unifiedpush implementation
#### External Setup

> For setting up push notifications a [firebase][https://firebase.google.com/] account is required. The following information below is required and can be found the firebase project settings.

Author: @Boomatang 
does this syntax works with md? shouldn't it be [ name ]( address ) ?

- The `google-services.json` file.
- Sender ID 
- Server Key

> With in the [Aerogear Unifiefpush Server][https://github.com/aerogear/aerogear-unifiedpush-server] create you application. For creating the application you will need the following information.

Author: as above

Author: Hey @Boomatang,

Update:
I've reviewed your part of the PR and made some corrections. Please check if your part of PR still highlights all the important stuff that you wanted to add!
